in recent times I noticed while staring
out of the windows in my apartment that
I really do not like the winter season
one of the reasons might be that I'm
already planning an automatic greenhouse
for my garden in which I for example
will be measuring the humidity of the
air and earth in order to determine when
to water the plants for such a watering
system I would of course require some
sort of water pump and that was the
moment I started searching for chabot
foods dc1 on Amazon but as you can see a
nice selection is not that huge and thus
I was more or less forced to go with
this twelve foods six watt one which
according to its product description can
do 8 liters per minutes but after
receiving the pump and having a closer
look at its I realized that its
mechanical construction is rather simple
and since the company try Namek motion
control who are not only the sponsor of
this video but also produce all kinds of
awesome ICS for motor control recently
sent me a brand new prototype motor
controller ports along with a powerful
BLDC motor I will try to create my own
3d printed water pump with its in this
episode of DIY or buy so that at the end
we can determine whether it makes sense
to DIY a water pump or whether we should
stick to the commercial solution in
stance let's get started
[Music]
first off we need to understand how
these small commercial water pump works
in order to create a bigger replica so I
edit adapters onto the two threads of
the pump and then used some sealing tape
in order to make everything watertight
so that in the end I could push to 12
millimeter white PVC tubes onto them at
this point I hooked up the power wires
to a 12 volt power source and as you
would expect the motor draws currents
and something started rotating inside
the pump that means it was time for me
to get two bolts and fill one up with
exactly one liter of water but the
problem was that no matter which PVC
tube I placed in the water the pump
never started transporting the water on
its own the reason is that this kind of
border pump is not a self priming pump
which means I have to use some of my own
energy in order to get the water to the
pump but afterwards it does a job
without a problem
and it seems like the water can only
enter this way and exit this way now
after doing some more or less scientific
measurements I calculated an average
flow rate of around 10 liter per minutes
at an average power draw of around seven
point four volts which means that the
product description was pretty accurate
and with those tests out of the way
I removed the adapters as well as the
screws that held the pump together after
removing the front piece we can see a
wheel which was being turned by the
utilized motor so what happens is that
the water enters through this hole and
fills up the entire space around the
wheel and while the wheel is spinning it
accelerates the water which flows
radially outwards and into a hole where
it exits because of this functional
principle this kind of pump is known as
a centrifugal pump and theoretically we
should
able to 3d print the mechanical parts
for its but while I was getting close to
finishing the first sketch of my own
centrifugal pump I noticed that the user
Adolphe overt thingy worse already
created a pretty promising looking
design for a bigger one of course I
would not require its motor mounts since
I will be using a different motor than
him but the main components of the pump
looked very nice so I downloaded its
files and imported them into the Poussin
slicer software in which I obviously
sliced them afterwards my 3d printed
each model with my Prusa i3 Mach 3 3d
printer for which I used orange phg
filaments to give the pump a bit more
mechanical strength as soon as the three
parts were printed I removed all of
their support material which was a bit
more difficult than I expected but
nevertheless as soon as that was done we
can already see how the parts will fit
together later on so now we need to
attach the motor in a way to constantly
turn the wheel for that I firstly added
a motor shaft coupler to the wheel which
coincidentally also perfectly fits onto
the motor shaft so the only measurement
I required was the height of the wheel
shafts which was around 6 centimeter and
with the measurement and through the
help of the datasheet of the motor and
it's given mechanical dimensions
I created a fitting motor mounts in 1 to
3d design the next step was to obviously
a 3d printers which turned out just fine
now to finish the mechanical setup I
firstly created a circle shape with
silicone tape which I placed inside the
ball bearing cavity into which I then
placed an ice-cold ball bearing that got
hammered into position next I added
another sealing on the inside for the
wheel then poked a hole through both of
them and thus finally added
wiill to the system at this point I
started cutting up and adding the
silicone tape all around the pumps edges
which in retrospective was a dumb idea
so I will not waste time talking about
that and just say that the pump was
completed after using m3 screws to close
everything up next I got myself a wooden
boards onto which I firstly marked the
pumps mounting holes in order to drill
them and then to secure the pump to its
with m4 bolts and nuts
afterwards I fixed the motor inside the
motor mounts and added the motor shaft
coupler to the wheel and the motor
shafts in order to determine a suitable
position for the motor mounts after then
marking its mounting holes and drilling
them as well I secured it with m4 bolts
and nuts to the wooden boards and just
like that the mechanical construction
should have been complete but at this
point I noticed that the silicone tape
inside the pump hinders the movement of
the wheel so I was more or less forced
to remove most of its and instead create
a watertight seal with corrode hot glue
now finally we need to drive the be LEC
model for which we could use a generic
ear SIA
but like already mentioned the tri
nameks sent me this new talk 5 prototype
boards that combines a risk 5 MCU with a
motion controller which is pretty unique
you can find more information about the
boards on the internets but for now let
me tell you that you can configure it
with the provided TMC ide or program it
directly to the Eclipse software I also
need to tell you that I did not write
this codes since as you can see it is
fairly complex and I'm more of a
hardware guy instead a dynamic employee
made it for me and its function is to
basically drive the motor with an
adjustable rpm according to the position
of a potentiometer
so after programming the bots and hooked
up all of the required wires and
components and powered everything over
12 volt power source as you can see the
motor rotates without any problems and
it seems like our pump is ready for some
water that is why I added 32 millimeter
wide hoses to the entry and exit hole
and once again got myself two bolts but
I realized fairly quickly that this big
pump in combination with the big tubes
does not work well with my small balls
so I was forced to move to the bathtub
in which the DIY pump showcased that it
was desperately trying to pump water but
as soon as I increased the RPM to a
certain degree something went terribly
wrong it seems like the PE T G material
is not strong enough for the wheel
shafts and since I was not even going
with half power it seems like 3d
printing a big and powerful water pump
is not such a good idea of course there
also does exist a promising looking 3d
printed micro water pump on Thingiverse
whose material will not experience such
big forces in comparison to my big 3d
printed pump but then again if I want a
smooth DC water pump then I would go
with the commercial solution so
according to my experiments and my own
personal opinion I have to say that by
is this time like most of the time the
winner but what do you think let me know
your thoughts in the comment section
below as always thanks for watching
don't forget to Like share subscribe and
hitting the notification Pal stay
creative and I will see you next time